---
id: haptug-2022
year: 2022
order: 1
type: 
scope: Full paper

thumbnail: "/src/assets/publications/haptug.png"

title:
  en: "HapTug: Force-Feedback Haptic Device for Representation of Tugs in Virtual Reality"
  kr: "HapTug: Force-Feedback Haptic Device for Representation of Tugs in Virtual Reality"

authors:
  - name: Jongyoon Lim
    role: first
  - name: Yongsoon Choi

venue:
  en: "Electronics, Vol.11 No.11, 1730"
  kr: "Electronics 저널 11권 11호, 1730"

media:
  video: "https://www.youtube.com/embed/3pYoTW2AgUY"

links:
  pdf: "https://doi.org/10.3390/electronics11111730"
  doi: "10.3390/electronics11111730"

tags:
  - Haptics
  - Virtual Reality
  - Force Feedback
---

In this study, a haptic device is proposed for virtual reality (VR). The proposed haptic device is linked to the bundle controller of a VR device. The device proposed in this study was a force-feedback device that focused on the haptic felt by the hand rather than the feeling of the tool colliding with the object. The device provides the feeling of centrifugal or inertial forces due to the weight of the tool when the user swings the tool, and the feeling of reaction force when a user stabs or pokes an object with the tool. The force generated by a haptic device of the linked type was measured and examined to determine whether this feeling of actually using a tool in the virtual environment is provided. In addition, we conducted two types of experiments to evaluate this haptic. First, VR content was created for user experience, and a survey was conducted with 30 experimenters to compare the bundle controllers and haptic device, called HapTug, in terms of realism, immersion, and enjoyment. The survey results demonstrated that the realism, immersion, and enjoyment increased compared to those using the bundle controller alone. Second, 41 experimenters were allowed to play freely in a virtual environment for six sessions, 30 seconds each. They had to press the button to control 30 seconds, and the device they wore turned on and off randomly every session. During the experience, their playback time, number of interactions, and range were measured. As a result, when the device activated, experimenters felt the time was shorter and showed widespread movements. Thus, it was proven that the proposed linked-type haptic device effectively delivered the feeling of wielding a tool, allowing the user to feel the virtual object coming in and going out of the hand when interacting with it. Moreover, three possibilities were found in the experiments: Previous VR experience times have little to do with the satisfaction of haptic use, users have low expectations for haptic realism, and users interact more actively with haptic devices.